Introduction

This repository contains the code and analysis for evaluating and comparing the performance of different classification methods for predicting the success of marketing campaigns conducted by a Portuguese banking institution. The study utilizes data from multiple marketing campaigns, aiming to build predictive models using k-nearest neighbors, logistic regression, decision trees, and support vector machines.

Import Necessary Packages

python
Copy code
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from matplotlib import pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
from sklearn.preprocessing import LabelEncoder
Business Problem Understanding

The primary goal is to assess the effectiveness of various classification models in predicting whether a client will subscribe to a bank product over the telephone. The dataset, obtained from the UCI Machine Learning repository, contains information about multiple marketing campaigns conducted by the bank.

Data Wrangling

The data wrangling process transforms the datasets into a workable format for analysis. The process_dfs function is employed to structure the data appropriately. Four datasets are used: bank_full, bank, bank_additional, and bank_additional_full.

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)

Exploratory Data Analysis is conducted primarily on the bank_full dataset. The distribution of numerical features and categorical features is visualized, providing insights into the characteristics of the dataset.

Modeling Training, Testing, and Evaluation

Four classification models (K-Nearest Neighbors, Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, and Support Vector Machine) are trained and evaluated using the bank_full dataset. The performance metrics include accuracy scores and classification reports.

Actionable Insights and Recommendations

The analysis yields actionable insights and recommendations for the banking institution's marketing campaigns. Key recommendations include focusing on efficiency improvement, utilizing business intelligence and data mining, understanding customer characteristics, considering privacy concerns, adopting an iterative CRISP-DM approach, and experimenting with multiple models.

Conclusion

The analysis and modeling conducted in this study provide valuable insights for the Portuguese banking institution. Leveraging diverse datasets and employing various classification methods, the study emphasizes a strategic, data-driven approach to optimize the effectiveness of direct marketing campaigns. Recommendations are provided to address specific areas such as efficiency improvement, privacy concerns, and the iterative refinement of models.

Future Work

Future work could involve expanding the dataset to include more client-based data and exploring predictive models without contact-based information. Continued collaboration with marketing teams and addressing privacy concerns proactively are also suggested for ongoing model improvement.

Acknowledgments

The analysis utilizes open-source tools like rminer and rattle for Data Mining. These tools contribute to cost-effective solutions for real-world applications.

Feel free to explore the code and analysis in this repository, and use the insights to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of your marketing campaigns.
